joining me now in the studio is most of
ab Botti the Secretary General of the
Palestinian national initiative party
thank you very much indeed for being
with us um as we've just mentioned there
are two there's a ruling from the United
Nations security Council saying there
must be an immediate ceesar for Ramadan
the international court of justice says
there must be more humanitarian aid but
our correspondent hany was telling us
earlier on about the Litany of attacks
and Strikes and and the devastation
that's been happening in Gaza just in
the last several hours was there ever a
point at which Palestinians do you think
had any faith that the UN Security
Council and the r rulings by the icj
would actually make a
difference unfortunately we have great
doubts not only about the ability of the
United Nations but about uh the
international uh International Community
in general and especially Western
Community because Israel is allowed to
act with complete impunity it is
behaving as if it is above the law above
international law above International
humanitarian law it is committing
genocide in front of the whole world uh
we're talking about 39,000 people killed
not 32 39,000 if we count the 7,000
under the Abel including almost 15,000
children and now forgive me for
interrupting these are numbers that are
coming from the Gaza
Authority yes but but they are correct
we have the names the names of these
children the names of these people uh
nobody negates them them even the United
States of America which did in the the
beginning but this is the reality
genocide Collective
punishment uh terrible acts against the
population and also terrible Siege and
ter terrible ethnic cleansing we're
talking about no less than 700,000
people are starving now in the north of
Gaza including 350,000 children and many
of them have started to die but in
addition the viciousness of the Israeli
attacks I have uh our medical teams in
the north of Gaza and they they reported
to us horrible things how the Israeli
Army in the near shifa hospital and in
shifa hospital has ex executed
people uh have burned families like abua
family they burned them to death by
burning their house while they were
inside them by killing so many other
families 22 23 25 by bombarding all the
whole neighborhood around the shifa
hospital and it goes on there are
reports that 200 people were executed
from the people who were hiding or
trying to take uh to take shelter from
the civilians who were taking shelter in
the shifa hospital and it goes on the
big question here is for how long Israel
would be allowed to be imp punitive and
the other big question why the
International Community and especially
the Western countries imposed on Russia
11,000 sanctions in the first two months
of the war with Ukraine and no single
sanction has been imposed on Israel I do
not think Netanyahu will stop and his
fascist government will not stop unless
there are sanctions and threats of
boycott divestment and sanctions the
closest that the U us has got so far to
expressing its concern with the
situation in Gaza is to abstain from the
UN vote which allowed that UN resolution
to go through given what you said and
then the to order it down by claiming
that it was not
obligatory which was a strange phrase
which has got a lot of the Diplomatic
Community um in some consternation
people are still trying to work out uh
what that meant because of course un
Security Council resolutions are legally
binding of course they are binding of
course in that Cas by the way the
language of that
resolution is 10 times stronger than the
language of the resolution 242 and 338
which are used as the Bible for peace
processes given what you said and given
that it seems to be done to the US uh to
be able if at all to be able to have
some leverage against Israel how
concerned are you as we now look towards
uh this situation in NFA the Israeli
threats to move into Rafa do you regard
that given the fact that Netanyahu has
now said that he will send a delegation
back to talks for a ceasefire how much
of that do you think is is leverage as
far as those talks are concerned and how
much of that is a genuine threat of the
remaining towards the remaining people
in Rafa it's very dangerous situation
because the United States is not saying
that Israel must not attack Rafa they
are saying they have to attack it to
attack it in a certain way to reduce the
number of people killed but you're
talking about 1.4 million people stuck
in an area that is no more than 40 squ
kilometers of course if you throw stones
on people they will die what
and they are sending Israel more bombs
and more jet fighters F35 jet fighters
and they're sending contradictive
messages from one side they say they
care about the civilian population from
the other side they are encouraging
Israel to attack by giving them the
weapons and by not saying that Israel
should should not attack Rafa why should
Israel attack Rafa what do they want to
achieve to have a huge Massacre the
greatest maybe in in in the in the the
whole human history in in modern times
or to try to actually achieve what
natany has been trying to achieve which
is to try to EV people from Gaza
creating the worst kind of ethnic
cleansing that is these these These are
the realities and the world Community
must stop an attack on Rafa because it
would mean a horrible horrible
Massacre I want to ask you about the the
potential involvement of uh Palestinians
in the the governing of Gaza when the
the war eventually ends given the
structure of the Palestinian Authority
as you see it at the moment given the
the the lack of trust that there is
exists on so many different sides what
role or what shape do you think a
Palestinian a Palestinian Authority
should take in order to have a role in
running Gaza look the west and United
States in particular talks about
democracy everywhere except in
Palestine they speak about Democratic
elections in Serbia maybe in China but
not in
Palestine we have to rule ourselves as
people we don't need anybody to rule us
from outside and definitely we don't
want an reactivation of the Israeli
occupation of Gaza but uh Mr Abbas went
on and formed a government by his own I
mean on his own without consulting with
other political forces in our opinion
the best solution is a national
consensus temporary government that
would be acceptable to everybody and
that would of course unify Gaza and West
Bank and prevent a continuation of
Israeli occupation but it should be
temporary because it has to organize
free Democratic elections something we
didn't have since 2006 and it is our
right as people to elect our leaders
democratically M we appreciate it thank
you very very much indeed thank you